.TH "TORSOCKS.CONF" "5" "August 24th, 2013" "" ""

.SH NAME
torsocks.conf \(em Configuration file for torsocks(8)

.SH SUMMARY

By default, torsocks will assume that it should connect to the Tor SOCKS proxy
running at 127.0.0.1 on port 9050. This is the default address and port for
Tor's socks server on most installations. If you are running a normal Tor
installation and have no special requirements, then you should not need to
create, edit or invoke a configuration file when using torsocks.

Your installation of torsocks includes a default configuration file
that contains values sensible for use with most Tor installations. The
installation location for your default configuration file is:

/etc/tor/torsocks.conf

In order to use a configuration file, you must set the environment variable
TORSOCKS_CONF_FILE with the location of the file.

If TORSOCKS_CONF_FILE is not set, torsocks will attempt to read the
configuration file at /etc/tor/torsocks.conf. If that file cannot be read,
torsocks will use sensible defaults for most Tor installations, i.e. it will
assume that you want to use a SOCKS proxy running at 127.0.0.1 (localhost) on
port 9050.

.SH CONFIGURATION

.SS SYNTAX
The basic structure of all lines in the configuration file is:

.RS
<directive> <parameters>
.RE

Empty lines are ignored and all input on a line after a '#' character is
ignored.

.SS DIRECTIVES
The following directives are used in the torsocks configuration file:

.TP
.I TorAddress ip_addr
The IP address of the Tor SOCKS server (e.g "server = 10.1.4.253"). Only one
server may be specified. Currently, torsocks does NOT support hostname.
(default: 127.0.0.1)

.TP
.I TorPort port
The port on which the Tor SOCKS server receives requests. (default: 9050)

.TP
.I OnionAddrRange subnet/mask
Tor hidden sites do not have real IP addresses. This specifies what range of IP
addresses will be handed to the application as "cookies" for .onion names.  Of
course, you should pick a block of addresses which you aren't going to ever
need to actually connect to. This is similar to the MapAddress feature of the
main tor daemon. (default: 127.42.42.0/24)

.TP
.I SOCKS5Username username
Username to use for SOCKS5 authentication method that makes the connections to
Tor to use a different circuit from other existing streams. If set, the
SOCKS5Password must be specified also. (Default: none).

.TP
.I SOCKS5Password password
Password to use for SOCKS5 authentication method that makes the connections to
Tor to use a different circuit from other existing streams. If set, the
SOCKS5Username must be specified also. (Default: none).

.TP
.I AllowInbound 0|1
Allow inbound connections meaning that listen() and accept()/accept4() will be
allowed for non localhost address so the applicaton can handle incoming
connection. Note that Unix socket are allowed. (Default: 0)

.SH EXAMPLE
  $ export TORSOCKS_CONF_FILE=$PWD/torsocks.conf
  $ torsocks ssh account@sshserver.com

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR torsocks(1),
.BR torsocks(8),

.SH AUTHOR
David Goulet <dgoulet@ev0ke.net>
