.TH "TORSOCKS" "1" "March 3rd, 2014" "" ""

.SH NAME
torsocks \(em Shell wrapper to simplify the use of the torsocks(8) library to
transparently torify an application.

.SH SYNOPSIS

.PP
torsocks [OPTIONS] [COMMAND [ARG ...]]

.SH DESCRIPTION

\fBtorsocks\fP is a wrapper between the torsocks library and the application in
order to make every Internet communication go through the Tor network.

By default, torsocks will assume that it should connect to the Tor SOCKS proxy
running at 127.0.0.1 on port 9050 being the defaults of the Tor daemon.

In order to use a configuration file, torsocks tries to read the
\fB/etc/tor/torsocks.conf\fP file or look for the environment variable
TORSOCKS_CONF_FILE with the location of the file. If that file cannot be read,
torsocks will use sensible defaults for most Tor installations.

For further information on configuration, see
.BR torsocks.conf(5).

.SH OPTIONS

.TP
.BR "\-h, \-\-help"
Show summary of possible options and commands.
.TP
.BR "\-\-shell"
Create a new shell with LD_PRELOAD including \fBtorsocks(8)\fP.
.TP
.BR "\-\-version"
Show version.
.TP
.BR "\-u, \-\-user"
Set username for the SOCKS5 authentication. Use for circuit isolation in Tor.
Note that you MUST have a password set either by the command line, environment
variable or configuration file (torsocks.conf(5).
.TP
.BR "\-p, \-\-pass"
Set password for the SOCKS5 authentication. Use for circuit isolation in Tor.
Note that you MUST have a username set either by the command line, environment
variable or configuration file (torsocks.conf(5)).
.TP
.BR "\-d, \-\-debug"
Activate the debug mode. Output will be written on stderr.
.TP
.BR "on | off"
This option adds or removes \fBtorsocks(8)\fP from the LD_PRELOAD environment
variable for the current shell. If you want to use this option, you HAVE to
source torsocks from your shell.
.br

.nf
Add the torsocks library to LD_PRELOAD
$ . torsocks on
.br
Remove the torsocks library from LD_PRELOAD
$ . torsocks off
.fi
.TP
.BR "show | sh"
Show the current value of the LD_PRELOAD environment variable.

.SH "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES"
.PP
Please see \fBtorsocks(8)\fP for more detail on possible environment variables.
.PP

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR torsocks(8),
.BR torsocks.conf(5)

.SH "CREDITS"

.PP
torsocks is distributed under the GNU General Public License version 2.
.PP
A Web site is available at https://www.torproject.org for more information.
.PP
You can also find the source code at https://git.torproject.org.
.PP
Mailing list for help is <tor-talk@lists.torproject.org> and for development
use <tor-dev@lists.torproject.org>. You can find the project also on IRC server
irc.oftc.net (OFTC) in #tor and #tor-dev.
.PP

.SH AUTHOR
torsocks was originally written by Robert Hogan and has been rewritten by David
Goulet <dgoulet@torproject.org> in 2013.
.PP
